# Validere
In order to explore whether or not the proverb "you drive for the show but putt for the dough" is true, a predictive model is made on the "Weekly data for the 2019 PGA tour season" data avaialble at https://bit.ly/38LUzxt. 

The data contains multiple variables recorded for each player including 'Official Money - (MONEY)' which is the the total official money a player has earned year-to-date. 
The success is assumed to be synonomous to the amount of "official dough" earned by a player and thus, 'Official Money - (MONEY)" is used as the target of the predictive model. Any other "variable" deemed related is used as the "features" in the model to explore their importance on the target. 
The results clearly show that putting per se is not the most important element in success. On the other hand, accuracy in its various forms such as "Accuracy" and "Average approach distance - Birdie or Better" were shown to be the most effective features in sucess in the game. The results were shown to be a little bit sensitive to the amount of data being analyzed (ex. drop_threshold parameter for not using features with less than a minimum amount of data). Therefore, I performed a sensitivity analysis and yet the conclusion was not changed that putting is not the most important parameter and at most, both putting and accuracy of driving were equally important. 

This conclusion is based on the observation of the top most important features including "Puts made per event over 10'" and "Accuracy" and "Average approach distance - Birdie or Better". The former clearly shows the importance of putting skills as it relates to putting from distances over 10' rather than putting from shorter distances. The "Accuracy" is the percentage of time a tee shot comes to rest in the fairway and is self explanatory. The latter, "Average approach distance - Birdie or Better" has of course initiated with the drive but a drive that has been good enough to allow a final putting resulting in a birdie or better. Therefore, although this feature is not purely related to the drive, it is showing the importance of an accurate drive. Therefore, yes a driving gesture looks appealing to the observers, however, its goodness is how far of a distance you can drive to provide a good situation for the final putting to result in a lower score. Browsing through the next important features shown on the features vs f-score plot reinforces this conclusion. 

Back to the proverb, it is true in that "IF" driving is "for the show" meaning that it is aimless without sufficient accuracy to travel the right distance to facilitate the final putting, it doesn't do much good, but it's not the whole truth in that an accurate drive is as important as the final putting in sucess in the game. Overall, accuracy seems a much better measure than driving. 

With regard to limitations and improvements, the current model looks at the top professional players who are very likely to have practiced both driving and putting skills to the same degree. It will be interesting to actually shuffle the players and see if the same pttern repeats among amateur players as well because intuitively, it seems to me that an amateur is more likely to perform better in driving than putting and that's where the proverb is originating from. Also, if seasonal data were analyzed, it would be interesting to see how much driving or putting would be affected by weather conditions. These two are not explored in current study.
